---
title: Building the Site with TeXt and Jekyll Scholar
tags: [TeXt, Jekyll]
article_header:
  type: cover
  image:
    src: /assets/images/blogs/blog1/header.jpg
modify_date: 2018-12-24
show_author_profile: true
---

Welcome! This is the first blog of the site built with [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/){:target="_blank"} and [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/
){:target="_blank"}.

In this article, I'd like to introduce the way I set up the site by adding a few features based on the [TeXt](https://tianqi.name/jekyll-TeXt-theme/docs/en/){:target="_blank"} theme. In particular, some of the add-on design and features are borrowed from [al-folio](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio){:target="_blank"}, which is another great Jekyll theme for academics. The reason for choosing **TeXt** instead of **al-folio** to build on the site is the diversity of the styles and extensions (i.e., support for audio) provided.

All the source code of the site is available on the [source branch of my repo](https://github.com/zhepeiw/zhepeiw.github.io/tree/source){:target="_blank"}.

# Features
## Customized Home Page

The default layout of the home or index page of the theme is the list of blog posts (as the layout under the current [Blogs](/blog) section). The layout of the home page is changed by modifying `_layouts/home.html`.

Personally, I'd like to display a short bio and a few updates (news) about my experience on the home page instead of a list of blogs. I replace the home layout to include a short bio and a list of news as two separate html files, `_includes/bio.html` and `_includes/news.html`, respectively. In particular, the html for the new listing, `_includes/news-list.html` is similar to what we have in `_includes/article-list.html`. We can add whatever content we want on the home page with similar approaches. In addition, I made a separate copy of the original home layout file to be the layout for the blog listing, `_layout/blog_home.html`.

With such a setup, we now have a customized index page and a separate blog listing page.

## Additional Social Options

**TeXt** supports several contact options for social platforms including email, Facebook and LinkedIn. whose button appears on the footer of the page by default. We can incorporate additional options by editing the `_includes/author-links.html`.

To include Google Scholar, we will need to use the icons from [Academicons](https://jpswalsh.github.io/academicons/){:target="_blank"}. First, download the latest icon packages and put `academicons.css` under `assets/css/` and the rest under `assets/fonts/`. Then, add the following line to `assets/css/main.scss`

```ruby
@import "academicons.css";
```

Add the following lines to `_includes/author-links.html` under the `<ul>...</ul>` block

```html
{{ "{-% if _author.scholar "}}-%}
  <li title="{{ __return | replace: '[NAME]', 'Google Scholar' }}">
    <a class="button button--circle scholar-button" itemprop="sameAs" href="{{ _author.scholar }}" target="_blank">
    <i class="ai ai-google-scholar"></i>
    </a>
  </li>
{{ "{-% endif "}}-%}
```

Finally, add the `scholar` option under `author` in `_config.yml`.


## Bibliography

Unfortunately, **TeXt** does not come with automatic bibliography support. To enable such support, we incorporate [Jekyll Scholar](https://github.com/inukshuk/jekyll-scholar){:target="_blank"} into the site.Jekyll Scholar is a Jekyll extension that converts bibtex to bibliography formatted according to the settings.

To use Jekyll Scholar, we first add the following into the `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem 'jekyll-scholar', group: :jekyll_plugins
```

Then, add the following into `_config.yml`

```yaml
scholar:

  last_name: YOUR_LAST_NAME
  first_name: YOUR_FIRST_NAME

  style: apa
  locale: en

  sort_by: year
  order: descending

  source: /_bibliography/
  bibliography: papers.bib
  bibliography_template: bib

  replace_strings: true
  join_strings: true

  details_dir: bibliography
  details_layout: bibtex.html
  details_link: Details

  query: "@*"
```

Next, add a layout html named `bib.html` under `_layouts/`. A sample could be found at the **al-folio**'s site [here](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio/blob/master/_layouts/bib.html){:target="_blank"}.

Finally, make a new directory `_bibliography/` under the root directory, and put the bibtex file `papers.bib` under the directory.

In addition, it is possible to have the link for coauthors by adding `coauthors.yml` under `_data/` adapted from [the al-folio's example](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio/blob/master/_data/coauthors.yml){:target="_blank"}.

For this site, I added a few supports for coauthors and equal contribution. You may refer to my repo for `_config.yml` and `_layouts/bib.html` for details.

# Site Deployment
Github Pages does not support Jekyll Scholar under the default workflow, but it is possible to host the site on Github Pages as introduced in [this example](http://davidensinger.com/2013/07/automating-jekyll-deployment-to-github-pages-with-rake/){:target="_blank"}. In summary, we push the source files to a separate branch to remote and keep only the generated content of the `_site/` directories to the `master` branch.

## Preliminary Steps
If this is the **first time** running the site, we should first create a [`Rakefile`](https://github.com/zhepeiw/zhepeiw.github.io/blob/source/Rakefile){:target="_blank"} at the root of the repository. Then, we create and switch to a separate branch, (i.e., `source`) with 

```bash
git checkout -b source
```

## Regular Deployment
To obtain the generated content, we then build our site locally with 

```bash
bundle exec jekyll serve
```

Make sure we stay on the `source` branch before running the following steps. You can check the status with 

```bash
git branch
```

We can run

```bash
rake commit
```

to commit the changes to the source branch locally and 

```bash
rake deploy
```

to push the `_site` directory to remote `master` and the source to remote `source`.

We can also combine the two steps into one by running

```bash
rake commit_deploy
```


---

Given my limited understanding of Jekyll and front-end development, I admit that the site is still far from perfect, there are a few more possible features to include, and the notes and instructions above is not comprehensive and may contain mistakes. I'm still exploring ways to enhance the site, and I'm more than happy to receive suggestions and comments.

